# CompMusicPortfolio <br />
Portfolio for Computation Musicology 2023 <br /><br />

This corpus is a playlist titled *"Jazz fusion Corpus"* and consists solely of tracks generated by Spotify Mix playlists. <br />
I chose this corpus because it contains a variety of different genres, artists, tracks all of which are generated by spotify itself.<br />
I like to research spotify's definition of genres, hence the use of tracks solely generated by Spotify.<br />
<br />
The corpus consists of 5 subgroups,corresponding to distincs musical genres as defined by Spotify. <br />
For every genre 50 tracks are generated by the Spotify Mix playlists: 'Rock and Blues (RnB) mix', 'Jazz Classics mix', 'Funk mix' and 'Rock mix' and 'Jazz Fusion Mix'. <br />
The interesting part about these genres is that Jazz Fusion is defined as a mix of the other 4 genres. This yields in a corpus 4*50 tracks corresponding to distinct genres, and 50 tracks corresponding to a genre which should contain characteristics of all the other 4 genres.<br />

The tracks in the genres "Rock", "Jazz", "Funk" and "Rhythm and Blues" seem to portray a clear distinction in Artist, musical characterics, year of release. There seems to be little to no overlap between genres in artists. There seems to be a skew towards old artists and songs, "classics". This bias should not cause a problem however, as newer releases might blur the lines of the original characteristics that defined the particular genre.

However, for the 50 tracks generated by the "Jazz Fusion mix" there seems to be a high overlap in artists and tracks between the other 4 genres. This makes sense, as jazz fusion is a fusion of the other 4 genres. Although it is a distinct genre, you can expect an overlap in artists and tracks of the 4 musical from which jazz fusion arose.
